# Test Case 02-002: Unrestricted names (basic form)


## Description

Shows the use of unrestricted element names, and specifically
how names can contain spaces when enclosed by single quotes.


## Scope

The scope of this Test Case is uSysML v0.02, and the applicable
keywords are: `package`, `part def`, and `part`.


## SysML v2 textual notation

```sysml
{% include "test_02-002.sysml" %}
```


## uSysML output

```
{% include "test_02-002.output" %}
```


## Discussion

The spiral 1 test cases use basic names. This test case shows use
of unrestricted names, but only in the basic form without the use
of escape sequences.

As per KerML p20, there are two kinds of names:


> 1. A basic name is one that can be lexically distinguish in itself from
> other kinds of tokens. The initial character of a basic name must be one
> of a lowercase letter, an uppercase letter or an underscore. The remaining
> characters of a basic name are allowed to be any character allowed as an
> initial character plus any digit. However, a reserved keyword may not be
> used as a name, even though it has the form of a basic name (see 7.1.2.7),
> including the Boolean literals true and false.
> 
> 2. An unrestricted name provides a way to represent a name that contains
> any character. It is represented as a non-empty sequence of characters
> surrounded by single quotes. The characters within the single quotes may
> not include non-printable characters (including backspace, tab and newline).
> However, these characters may be included as part of the name itself
> through use of an escape sequence. In addition, the single quote character
> or the backslash character may only be included by using an escape sequence.


## Notes

**Note 1**

The SysML v2 example shown in this Test Case works in the SysMl v2 Pilot
implementation, however the JupyterLab visualisation with `%viz` appears
unable to handle unrestricted names:


```jupyter
%viz --view=tree 'My PackageVehicles'

ERROR:Couldn't resolve reference to Element ''My'
```
