# Test Case 01-001: Fully qualified element names (FQEN)


## Description

Parsing a `*.sysml` file will generate a FQEN for each element, starting
with `Root`.


## SysML v2 textual notation

```sysml
{% include "test_01-001.sysml" %}
```


## Expected output

```
{% include "test_01-001.output" %}
```


## Rules/constraints

1. A `*.sysml` file defines the namespace for the elements it contains.
The top level namespace bounded by the file is assigned to the element
`Root`.
2. Each curly braces segment defines a namespace.
3. Within a `*.sysml` file each FQEN must be unique.


## Comments

In the KerML nomenclature the element names ('Vehicle', 'Wheel' 'vehicle',
and 'w') are `humanId`. Per KerML 7.2.2.1:

> "one of the aliasIds, the humanId, may be entered by the modeler.
> If given, the humanId for an Element has the lexical form of a name.
> However, an Element may be given different names relative to different
> Namespaces (see 7.2.4), while the humanId for an Element is the same
> in all contexts. Any humanIds of the ownedElements of a Namespace must
> be unique (see 7.2.4), but it is otherwise the responsibility of the
> modeler to maintain other structural or uniqueness properties for
> humanIds as appropriate to the model being created."


The following statement requires that no two elements can have the same
`humanId`:

> "Any humanIds of the ownedElements of a Namespace must be unique"

This can be restated as follows: no two model elements can have the
same FQEN.


## Discussion and notes

This Test Case focuses on the requirement for uniqueness of each
FQENs within a sysml file. The following example should generate
an error:

```sysml
{% include "test_01-001.error.sysml" %}
```

In this case both `part def Wheel` and `part Wheel` have the same
FQEN `PackageVehicles.Wheel`. Currently, the Pilot implementation
would process the above with no errors but would issue a warning:

```sysml
WARNING:Duplicate owned member name (1.sysml line : 4 column : 14)
```
