# Test Case 01-002: *PartDefinition* element


## Description

Explores characterists of *PartDefinition* element.


## Scope

The scope of this Test Case is uSysML v0.01, and the applicable
keywords are: `package`, `part def`, and `part`.


## SysML v2 textual notation

```sysml
{% include "test_01-002.sysml" %}
```


## uSysML output

```
{% include "test_01-002.output" %}
```


## Discussion

The keyword `part def` declares a part definition element. A part defintion
element is called *PartDefinition* in Sysml v2 abstract syntax diagrams,
and is denoted '[PartDef]' in the uSysML output. Speaking in general, the
purpose of SysML v2 definition elements is to type appropriate usage elements.
The usage element that can be typed by *PartDefinition* is *PartUsage*,
declared with the keyword `part`. *PartUsage* is a usage element that
represent usage of a part definition. Also see
[Test Case 01-003](../test_01-003/test_01-003.md).

In the textual notation example above, the following elements
are *PartDefinition*:
* `part def Vehicle;` -- 'Vehicle' is *PartDefinition* without the
body specified
* `part def Wheel { part def Lugbolt; }` -- 'Wheel' is *PartDefinition*
with a body which defines its namespace, and declares another
*PartDefinition* 'Lugbolt'.

The nested elements within `part def` are referred to as its features.
Thus in the above example `Wheel` is *PartDefinition* with one feature,
`Lugbolt` (which itself is also *PartDefinition*).


## Notes

In SysML v2 the base type of every *PartDefinition* is `Parts::Part` from
the Systems Library. Thie means that every *PartDefintion* is a subclass
of Systems Library `Parts::Part`, directly or indirectly. Systems Library
`Parts::Part` is itself a *PartDefinition*, as given below:


```
package Parts {
	private import Objects::Object;
	private import Objects::objects;
	private import Items::Item;
	private import Items::items;
	private import Ports::Port;
	private import Ports::ports;
	private import Actions::Action;
	private import States::StateAction;
	
	abstract part def Part :> Item {
		ref self: Part :>> Item::self;
		part start: Part :>> Item::start;
		part done: Part :>> Item::done;
		abstract port portsOnPart: Port[0..*] :> ports;
		abstract ref action performedActions: Action[0..*] :> enactedPerformances;
		abstract ref state exhibitedStates: StateAction[0..*] :> performedActions;
	}
	abstract part parts: Part[0..*] nonunique :> items;
}
```

We note that `Parts::Part` subsets `Items::Item` from the Systems Library.

